Stale flag beta docs (#3545)
harness/developer-hub: docs/feature-flags/ff-creating-flag/manage-stale-flags.md

---
title: Manage stale flags
description: Identify and automatically open pull requests to remove stale f4ature flags from your code.
sidebar_position: 30
---

:::info note

> Stale flag management and cleanup automation is a beta feature.

Reviewer: You need to include the name of the feature flag for this beta feature. See https://developer.harness.io/docs/get-started/beta-preview-ga for an explanation of beta.

Reviewer: You can't call it beta if it's not behind a feature flag. See the description of beta here: [ ](https://developer.harness.io/docs/get-started/beta-preview-ga)

:::

## Manage stale flags

> Harness Feature Flags helps to identify stale flags, as well as to automate the process of removing them from your code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Harness Feature Flags helps you identify stale flags and automates the process of removing them from your code.
```

Stale flags are flags that are no longer needed as the change behind them has been widely rolled out and no longer needs any control in production. 

> ### Find potentially stale flags

Reviewer: This is already documented at [ ](https://developer.harness.io/docs/feature-flags/ff-creating-flag/edit-and-delete-a-feature-flag/#check-for-stale-flags)

Reviewer: Looks like the link didn't work in my original comment. This information is already documented in another topic [ ](https://developer.harness.io/docs/feature-flags/ff-creating-flag/edit-and-delete-a-feature-flag/#check-for-stale-flags). If you want to have the same information in more than one place, then you should put it in a partial file and then include it in the places where you want it. That way, when you update it, you only have to update it in one place.

- At the top of your Feature Flags overview screen, you will find a list of filters. 
- One of those filters is labeled **Potentially Stale Flags**. 
- Click this list to see which flags have been highlighted by Harness as potentially stale.

> By seeing which flags are potentially stale, your team can choose to either manually clean them up, mark them for automated cleanup via Harness, or mark them as not being stale at all.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By seeing which flags are potentially stale, your team can choose to either manually clean them up, mark them for automated cleanup via Harness, or mark them as not being stale.
```

> ### Definition of potentially stale

Reviewer: This is already documented in [ ](https://developer.harness.io/docs/feature-flags/ff-creating-flag/edit-and-delete-a-feature-flag/#check-for-stale-flags)

> Harness defines _potentially stale_ flags as follows 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Harness defines _potentially stale_ flags as follows:
```

- Flag has not had evaluations in the last 60 days.

Or

- Flags that have not had any modification to their targeting rules in longer than 60 days.

Or

- Flags that have been globally set to a single value for longer than 30 days.

### Mark flags for cleanup

> When viewing all flags marked as potentially stale, you have two options within Harness

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When viewing all flags marked as potentially stale, you have two options:
```

> - **Mark as not stale** - this will remove the flag from the _potentially stale_ list for a period of 60 days. If the same criteria are met after 60 days, the flag will appear in the _potentially stale_ list again

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Mark as not stale** - this removes the flag from the _potentially stale_ list for a period of 60 days. If the same criteria are met after 60 days, the flag appears in the _potentially stale_ list again.
```

> - **Mark as Ready for Cleanup** - this will change the flag’s status to _ready for cleanup_ , which will appear in the UI and be used as a list for the flag cleanup pipeline.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Mark as Ready for Cleanup** - this changes the flag’s status to _ready for cleanup_ , which appears in the UI and is used as a list for the flag cleanup pipeline.
```

Note that once a flag has been marked as _ready for cleanup_, you can still undo this decision by marking the flag as not stale.

> ![A view of the Harness Feature Flags dashboard with the potentially stale flags filter selectd](./static/stale-flags-filter.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![A view of the Harness Feature Flags dashboard with the potentially stale flags filter selected](./static/stale-flags-filter.png)
```

## Flag cleanup automation 

> ### What’s needed

Reviewer: Remove this heading. It's not needed.

> In order to leverage Harness’ flag cleanup automation pipeline, you will need the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In order to leverage Harness’ flag cleanup automation pipeline, you need the following:
```

- A valid cleanup [toml configuration file](https://www.google.com/url?q=https://github.com/harness/flag_cleanup/blob/unscripted/docs/1_understanding_rules.md&sa=D&source=docs&ust=1695064949403882&usg=AOvVaw19GoyueRvzdkIJXRnwLyhx)
- A Harness API key (so we can get the list of stale flags)
- A Dockerhub connector to download the cleanup plugin
- [A git connector on Harness](https://developer.harness.io/docs/platform/connectors/code-repositories/ref-source-repo-provider/git-hub-connector-settings-reference/) - to connect to your code

> - A Github token to create the PR

Reviewer: Add a period at the end of each bullet ite.

### Languages supported for flag cleanup

At this time, the following languages are supported for flag cleanup automation:

- Java	
- Kotlin
- Go

### Set up a flag cleanup pipeline

> In order to use flag cleanup automation during the beta phase, you will need to [import a pipeline template](https://developer.harness.io/docs/platform/git-experience/import-a-template-from-git/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In order to use flag cleanup automation during the beta phase, you need to [import a pipeline template](https://developer.harness.io/docs/platform/git-experience/import-a-template-from-git/).
```

- The URL to import from is https://github.com/harness/flag_cleanup/blob/unscripted/docs/pipelines/flag_cleanup_pipeline.yaml

> - Note that the identifier and the name must match

Reviewer: Add a period at the end of each bullet item.

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/sSP1nxrBwxo?si=dGI7vBmio6pfhWnX" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" allowfullscreen></iframe>

> ### Training your cleanup configuration file 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Train your cleanup configuration file 
```

> You will need update the rules file with the correct tree-sitter query.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You need to update the rules file with the correct tree-sitter query.
```

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/Y22vmMNwPYU?si=W-SHEQlHV-3cNYOg" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" allowfullscreen></iframe>

### Secrets configuration for Gitub

> 

Reviewer: You need an introductory sentence for this list.

- A Github connector to connect to the repo to clone down the code to cleanup. The [demo repo is here](https://github.com/harness/flag_cleanup) and the branch to use is “unscripted”.

![Step one of importing a pipeline template](./static/setting-up-cleanup-1.png)

- A Github token to allow the creation of PRs.

![Step two of importing a pipeline template](./static/setting-up-cleanup-2.png)

- A Harness API key to get the list of flags marked for cleanup.

![Step three of importing a pipeline template](./static/setting-up-cleanup-3.png)

- A Docker connector to pull down the plugin image.

![Step four of importing a pipeline template](./static/setting-up-cleanup-4.png)

### Run the flag cleanup pipeline

> Here we have the pipeline set up and our flags marked for cleanup. So now all we need to do is run the pipeline to do the cleanup.

Reviewer: Avoid using "we" in docs.

- Select the repo for the codebase and the branch.

![Step one of running the flag cleanup pipeline](./static/running-cleanup-pipeline-1.png)

> - Select the Github token, Github username and Harness API Key.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Select the Github token, Github username, and Harness API Key.
```

![Step two of running the flag cleanup pipeline](./static/running-cleanup-pipeline-2.png)

> - Select what code to run against. In our example repo we have both Go and Java. This are the paths to run against the Go code:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Select what code to run against. The example repo includes both Go and Java. These are the paths to run against the Go code:
```

![Step three of running the flag cleanup pipeline](./static/running-cleanup-pipeline-3.png)

> - Select the DockerHub connector to pull down the plugin container. And hit run!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Select the DockerHub connector to pull down the plugin container, and then select **Run**.
```

![Step four of running the flag cleanup pipeline](./static/running-cleanup-pipeline-4.png)

> As the pipeline runs you will see logs from the plugin showing it getting the flags and performing the code changes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As the pipeline runs, logs from the plugin show it getting the flags and performing the code changes.
```
